**APRIL , 1955**
----------------




**OUR DUTY NOW**
----------------

 -- {10sc06 1}   
  
  ### **PURPOSE**

This publication is dedicated to the mission of conveying to Davidian present truth believers, edifying news and articles of timely significance. This comforter freely gives its time to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation, and neither collects fees nor charges for its service.

 Address all communications to:

### **THE SYMBOLIC CODE**

Mt. Carmel Center Waco, Texas

 -- {10sc06 2}   
  
  OUR DUTY
--------

As Davidian Seventh- day Adventists we now find ourselves in a preparatory period when the Lord is working quietly but mightily and in a most effective way. Now is the time for each of us to get our house in order so to speak, and be ready to gird ourselves for the finishing of the work in the church. This present transitory period should find us preparing to go when the signal is given rather than to attempt to run ahead or fall behind the Lord’s program for now. The Lord is leading us now just as He has led us in the past—both through periods of activity to spread the Message and periods of reflection and advanced preparation for the next move. The hunting campaign is one of the major phases of the work and in one of the future issues of the Code, all will receive a report that should be most encouraging to each one who has the advancement of the Davidian message at heart. Ancient Israel was led by the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. When the cloud stopped, they stopped, and when the cloud went forward, they went forward. We, too, should follow the leadings of the Lord Who also now is in complete charge of the work.

 -- {10sc06 3}   
  
  We can be likened to an army with Jesus as our Commanderin-chief. He knows best just how to bring about victory, as He has wisely laid out all plans. Therefore, it behooves us to stand at attention when he so commands and to march forward when He so commands. Let each Davidian be awake and alert and harmoniously sing with his brethren “ready to go, ready to stay, ready His will to do.” With such a purpose in our hearts and with these words on our lips, we can always be in tune with God’s divinely-appointed time table

 -- {10sc06 4}   
  
  