TEXT FOR PRAYER
---------------

The Barren Tree
---------------

 I shall read from _Christ’s Object Lessons_, pp. 217, 218, beginning with paragraph one:

 “The barren tree receives the rain and the sunshine and the gardener’s care. It draws nourishment from the soil. But its unproductive boughs only darken the ground, so that fruit-bearing plants can not flourish in its shadow….

 “With what unwearied love did Christ minister to Israel during the period of added probation…. So His care and labor for you are not lessened, but increased. Still He says, ‘I the Lord do keep it; I will water it every moment; lest any hurt it, I will keep it night and day.’

 “‘If it bear fruit, well; and if not, then after that’

 “The heart that does not respond to divine agencies becomes hardened until it is no longer susceptible to the influence of the Holy Spirit. Then it is that the word is spoken, ‘Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?’“

 This parable explains that Christianity is plant-like; it is like a fruit tree. Moreover, it explains that God is very patient with us in our Christianity, for in the parable only after the third fruitless year would the Lord consider cutting down the barren fig tree, and even then He was convinced to wait still another year. Thus we see that we are given plenty of time in which to make good, – plenty of time to begin bearing fruit. There is, nevertheless, as in the parable, no fruitless tree to be spared beyond the fourth parabolic year.

 -- {2tg46 22}   
  
  <div style="text-align: center;">**THE GIFT OF MIRACLES**</div><div style="text-align: center;">**Especially Healing And Speaking In Tongues,**</div><div style="text-align: center;">**— When, How, Who?**</div><div style="text-align: justify;"></div><div style="text-align: center;">TEXT OF ADDRESS BY V.T. HOUTEFF,</div><div style="text-align: center;">MINISTER OF DAVIDIAN 7TH-DAY ADVENTISTS</div><div style="text-align: center;">SABBATH, APRIL 22, 1950</div><div style="text-align: center;">MT. CARMEL CHAPEL</div><div style="text-align: center;">WACO, TEXAS </div> Never before was the doctrine of miracles, especially of tongues and of healing, so variously agitated, urged, and practiced as it is throughout Christendom today. Yet never was there greater doubt as to the genuineness of the manifestations. And when confronted by the agitators of these miracles, those who do not believe in or accept them, nor possess their power, resort to saying just about anything and everything they can think of in their effort to counter the phenomena and to comfort themselves with their limited spiritual attainments. To clear away the smoke which has resulted from this fiery issue between these two hostile camps of Christians, and to expose the truth on the subject, which the master enemy has so completely covered up, is Inspiration’s purpose herein.

 Basic to a right understanding of the entire subject is the fundamental fact that on the day of Pentecost the disciples truly spoke in all the languages of the people that were then present.

 -- {2tg46 23}   
  
   From this pivotal point, no one can diverge, and yet believe the record, or know the truth it contains:

 _**“And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven. Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language. And they were all amazed and marveled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans? And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born? Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes, Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God.”**_ **Acts 2:1-11.**

 Although this subject is confounded by controversy, yet there stands forth out of it the indisputable fact that, regardless of anyone’s claims, no other sect of people, since the miracle- endowed disciples passed away, have possessed the gift which all of the 120 received on the Pentecost. Hence the plain truth is that that gift subsequently lifted it’s wings, as it were, and departed from among men, as verily as did the disciples themselves, and that never since that day has it remanifested itself.

 -- {2tg46 24}   
  
   Would any take issue with this assertion, then all that is necessary to discredit it is for them either to open their mouths and speak the languages of us all today, as the apostles spoke the languages of the people in their day, or to produce historical record of such a manifestation since then. But in the continued absence of such evidence, what then? Will this gift ever remanifest itself? If so, when? Why not now?

 In order satisfactorily to answer these questions, we must first consider the conditions upon which the early disciples of Christ received the gift of miracles, for only similar conditions will bring similar results. First of all, everyone of the disciples, it will be remembered, came to one accord (Acts 2:1) before they received the gift. Before the Pentecost, though, they were jealous of one another and were desiring to excel one another in position, prestige, and all else. Christendom today is even worse off; in fact, it is worse than at any other time. Never before has there been such controversy, such wrangling, such accusing and damning, in trying to exalt self and down the other. This is not, in particular, with regard to the fact that one sect disagrees with another, for all know that were there no differences, there would be no sects. Rather, what is of special concern is the fact that scarcely even two individuals within one sect agree on all points of teaching and practice. And besides being rife with dissensions, divisions, and bigotries of every kind, every denomination in Christendom is, in addition, shot through and through with every other spiritual ill. And who can deny it?

 -- {2tg46 25}   
  
   Long before these sad conditions developed, the Lord forewarned that men would fall asleep and let the Devil sow his “tares” among the “wheat” (Matt. 13:25, 28). For how long? – “Until the harvest.” And “in the time of harvest,” saith the Lord, “I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn.” Matt. 13:30.

 Since it is therefore strictly Biblical that God will not bestow the gift of miracles upon a people other than those who as a group come to one accord, who come to “see eye to eye” (Isa. 52:8), and since the Spirit cannot effect this unity and harmony now while the tares are commingled with the wheat, then all might as well reconcile themselves to the educative and redemptive discipline of waiting on the Lord until “harvest” – till the tares, the discordant or false ones, are purged out. Those who will not wait, but are impatient to possess the power right now to work wonders, will beguile themselves with a spurious gift. Bent on having the gift of miracle-working power that is being acclaimed rather than the gifts made available for the hastening of the harvest, they satisfy themselves with the counterfeit which is current, just as Pharaoh satisfied himself with the counterfeit serpents which his great men brought forth against the serpents of Moses (Ex. 7:10-12). If these counterfeit miracle-workers and miracle-hunters of today will not repent themselves of this folly, then they will have to pay the penalty for playing the fool.

 -- {2tg46 26}   
  
   What then is the truth about this gift? Are we to understand that the gospel work will close without it? Inspiration does not remain silent on the question, but, as we shall see, makes plain that the gospel work will never close, “the harvest” never be garnered in, without a world-wide manifestation of the gift of Miracles, including the gift of tongues.

 But, you may say, if the Angels, not men, are to separate the good from the bad, and thus end “the harvest,” then of what use and benefit will the gift be to mankind, if there are no more souls to save after that? It is precisely here at this clouded point in the way, that the church needs light lest she blindly plunge on and lose her way in the dense darkness ahead.

 To get into the full beam of light, we must first face the fact that the pre-pentecostal harvest took place in a self-deceived church, the Jewish; and through miracle-working power manifested by Christ Himself, it yielded the 120 disciples, the first fruits of those who are to be resurrected. Whereas the post-pentecostal harvest took place among the nations; and through miracle-power manifested by the Spirit-filled 120 disciples, it yielded an innumerable multitude of converts to Christianity (Acts 2:41, 47), the second fruits of those who are to be resurrected.

 -- {2tg46 27}   
  
   Now to summarize the types before the Pentecost: (1) the first fruits were numbered; (2) they came exclusively from the church itself; (3) the miracles then wrought were by Christ Himself.

 Now coming to the types after the Pentecost: (1) the second fruits were not numbered; (2) they came from the nations; (3) the miracles then wrought were by the numbered ones (the 120), the first fruits.

 Accordingly, the antitypical Pre-pentecostal harvest takes place in a self-deceived church, the Laodicean, “the house of God”; and through miracle-working power manifested by Heaven itself in the angels (Matt. 13:39), it yields the 144,000, the first fruits of those who are never to die. Whereas the antitypical post-pentecostal harvest takes place among the nations; and through miracle-working power manifested by the Spirit-filled 144,000, it yields the great multitude which no man can number (Rev. 7:9), the second fruits, of those who are never to die.

 This same truth in different aspects is figured forth in Daniel’s, chapter two prophecy:  _**“…a stone was cut out without hands, which smote the image upon his feet,…and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth….and in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, and…it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever. Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure.”**_ **Dan 2:34, 35, 44, 45.**

 -- {2tg46 28}   
  
   What smites the image? Is it not the stone which Daniel reveals is symbolical of the Kingdom of God restored? Also keep in mind the fact that the image is not smitten by the stone until after it (the stone) is cut out of the mountain, without hands, and that afterwards it grows and fills the earth, thus in turn becoming a mountain of itself. In elucidation of this truth, the prophet Isaiah adds:

 **_“And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths: for out of Zion shall_** **_go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.”_ Isa. 2:2, 3.**

 -- {2tg46 29}   
  
   Thus as the stone, supernaturally cut out of one mountain, supernaturally turns into another mountain, then fills the whole earth, it reveals the process of the prophecy’s turning into history: that the stone (in that it is to grow) is symbolical of the first-fruits in the kingdom; that the infant kingdom begins with the 144,000 “servants of God” (Rev. 7:3); that consequently the church of Laodicea (in that it is the last in which the wheat and the tares commingle, and therefore the one in which the wheat, the 144,000 first fruits, is harvested) is necessarily the mountain out of which the stone, the first fruit of the kingdom, is cut or taken from.

 Further, it is seen that their being “cut out without hands,” without human aid, obviously points out the fact that they are garnered by the angels; that their increasing, then, as the growth of the stone reveals, is the result subsequently of the gathering of the second fruits out of all nations, causing the mountain or kingdom, to fill the earth; and that this super-natural work of cutting out the stone, of separating the 144,000, the nucleus of the kingdom, is the purification of the church.

 Finally, since the stone, as has been seen, is cut out – the infant kingdom set up – “in the days _of_ these kings” (the toe-kings), not after their days, and since the 144,000 “servants of God” stand on mount Zion (Rev. 14:1), it conclusively follows that the stone kingdom in its beginning is set up in the Holy Land, while the toe-kings are yet in existence.

 -- {2tg46 30}   
  
   Beyond question, therefore, the 144,000 guileless servants of God (Rev. 14:5), composing the government of God in its beginning, the stone which smites the image, and which subsequently becomes a great mountain that fills the whole earth, are instrumental in the eventual overthrow of all earthly governments. Accordingly, therefore, of who else at that time in all the world, of who else indeed but themselves, could it be written:

 _“…they are men wondered at;…a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, even to the years of many generations.”_ Zech. 3:8; Joel 2:2.

 **_“And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people as a dew from the Lord, as the showers upon the grass, that tarrieth not for man, nor waiteth for the sons of men…. Thine hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all thine enemies shall be cut off….The portion of Jacob is not like them; for he is the former of all things: and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: the Lord of hosts is His name. Thou art My battle axe and weapons of war: for with thee will I break in pieces the nations, and with thee will I destroy kingdoms; and with thee will I break in pieces the horse and his rider; and with thee will I break in pieces the chariot and his rider; with thee also will I break in pieces man and woman; and with thee will I break in pieces old and young; and with thee will I break in **_pieces the young man and the maid; I will also break in pieces with thee the shepherd and his flock; and with thee will I break in pieces the husbandman and his yoke of oxen; and with thee will I break in pieces captains and rulers.”_ Mic. 5:7, 9; Jer. 51:19-23.**_**

 -- {2tg46 31}   
  
   Who would dare question that in prophecy these are the people and this is the church that completes the work – the only people and the only church that will possess all the gifts of the spirit, from the gift of prophecy to the gift of government and gift of miracles; that these gifts are given them for the achieving of their crowning work of lightening the earth with glory (Rev. 18:1), of “preaching this gospel of the kingdom in all the world for a witness unto all nations,” thereby gathering God’s people, the second fruits, tare-free (“My people”), out of Babylon (Rev. 18:4). Out of every nation and kindred and tongue and people (whom Babylon rules), they bring “their brethren” into the church purified (Isa. 66:19, 20), the kingdom of God on earth in its infant restoration.

 Prophetically envisioning in the long ago this glorious day of triumph for the people and the church of God, and for the “everlasting gospel,” Inspiration jubilantly declared:

 _“…Mighty miracles were wrought, the sick were healed, and signs and wonders followed the believers. God was in the work, and every saints, fearless of consequences, followed the convictions _of his own conscience, and united with those who were keeping all the commandments of God; and with power they sounded abroad the third message….”_ – “Early Writings”, pg. 278._

 -- {2tg46 32}   
  
   _“And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.”_ Rev. 9:6.

 _“…the swords that were raised to kill God’s people broke and fell as powerless as a straw….”_ – “Early Writings”, pg. 285.

 _“**Thus saith the Lord; I am returned unto Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called a city of truth; and the mountain of the Lord of hosts the holy mountain….Yea, many people and strong nations shall come to seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem, and to pray before the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts; In those days it shall come to pass, that ten men shall take hold out of all languages of the nations, even shall take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you: for we have heard that God is with you.”**_ **Zech. 8:3, 22, 23.**

 Thus illuminating in particular the tongues question, Zechariah’s prophecy reveals that in the gathering time, in the time when God Himself calls the church “a city of truth,” a “holy mountain,” the time in which nations go forth to seek the Lord and to invite others to come with them, then it is that the whole church, every active soldier in the gospel army, will have the gift of tongues, as is pointedly indicated by the affirmation that “ten men shall take hold _of all the languages_ of the nations.” The universal significance of this number is confirmed by the ten toes of the great image of Daniel 2, by the ten horns of the beast of Daniel 7 and of Revelation 13:1, by the ten servants in the parable of the ten pounds (_Luke_ 19:12-25), and by the ten virgins (Matt. 25:1-12) who are symbolical of the whole church, while the five wise virgins (the “wheat”) and the five foolish virgins (the “tares”) are still commingled. In all these as in all other instances, the number ten is numerically symbolical of Universality.

 -- {2tg46 33}   
  
   Just as conclusive as is Zechariah’s prophecy on the genuine gift of speaking in tongues, are Joel’s, Micah’s, Jeremiah’s, _Early Writing’s_, and the Revelation’s prophecies on the other gifts of miracles, including immunity to death, to be manifested among God’s people. Continuing with Joel’s prophecy, we see the gifts are bestowed on both old and young:

 _“**Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the Lord your God: for He hath given you the former rain moderately, and He will cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter rain in the first month…. And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out My Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions.”**_ **Joel 2:23, 28.**

 -- {2tg46 34}   
  
   Here, too, in plainest terms is set forth the truth that after, not before, the former and the latter rain (both of which are figurative of freshly revealed truths coming directly from the Throne of God, preceding the harvest), during the time of the great “harvest,” during the gathering of the people, these gifts of miracles will be restored. The result of God’s restoring them is graphically pictured by both Isaiah and Micah in their almost identical words:

 _**“But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us of His ways, and we will walk in His paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.”**_ **Mic. 4:1, 2.**

 In addition to the testimony of the types, here, from the mouth of at least seven witnesses (John, Micah, Joel, Daniel, Zechariah, Isaiah, Christ Himself) is “the more sure word of Prophecy,” revealing the set time for the gift of miracles.

 In summary, their faithful testimony is that the remanifestation of the gifts, among men, will be (1) after, not before, the latter rain is poured out; (2) after the stone is “cut out of the mountain,” not before; (3) the time when the Lord is gathering the second fruits from the “east” and from the “west”; (4) when Zion and Jerusalem are “called a city of truth, the mountain of the Lord of hosts the holy mountain” (holy kingdom); (5) when “the inhabitants of one city,” shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to pray before the Lord, and to seek the Lord of hosts: I will go also.”

 -- {2tg46 35}   
  
   Thus the Lord will free His people from both sin and sinners, keep them apart for evermore, and endow them with all miracle-working powers. Does He do this because they have been good? or for His name’s sake? Here is His own answer:

 _**“Therefore say unto the house of Israel, thus saith the Lord God; I do not this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for Mine holy name’s sake, which ye have profaned among the heathen, whither ye went. And I will sanctify My great name, which was profaned among the heathen, which ye have profaned in the midst of them; and the heathen shall know that I am the Lord, saith the Lord God, when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes. For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you out of all countries, and will bring you into your own land. Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you: and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh. And I will put My Spirit within you, and cause you _to **walk in My statutes, and ye shall keep My judgments, and do them. And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and ye shall be My people, and I will be your God.”**_ **Ezek. 36:22-28.****_

 -- {2tg46 36}   
  
   Note how clear these verses make the picture – that what God does for His people, He does, not because they are worthy of it, but for the sake of His own name; that He does it not before, but after, He takes them out of all countries and brings them into their own land; that He then and there cleanses them and changes their hearts. All of which shows that as long as His people are commingled with the tares, and live among the Gentiles, they can never be fitted for translation. Obviously, therefore, the land of our fathers is to be our final and superb dressing chamber to fit us for the society of pure, sinless, eternal beings.

 Do we see, then, as plain as we should, that to fail to heed the truth of this most momentous event in all church history, is to forfeit the gift of miracles, fitness for translation, and the right to live and reign with Christ during the thousand years? We dare not let the Enemy cheat us of this new-heart fitness for Heaven.

 This ingathering is indeed to be the second exodus, and it is to be exactly as the Lord has said:

 _**“And it shall come to pass in that day, that _**t**he Lord shall set His hand again the second time to recover the remnant of His people, which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea….like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.”_ Isa. 11:11, 16.**_

 -- {2tg46 37}   
  
   **_“And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.”_ Hos. 2:15.**

 _“…instead of giving all for Christ, many have taken the golden wedge and a goodly Babylonish garment, and hid them in the camp. If the presence of one Achan was sufficient to weaken the whole camp of Israel, can we be surprised at the little success which attends our efforts when every church and almost every family has its Achan?”_ – “Testimonies”, Vol. 5, pg. 157.

 Hence the reason for the imminent purification of the church, the destruction of the Achans of today, in preparation for the antitypical crossing of the Jordan.

 It is now to be considered how this work of (“shaking”), separating, will begin, and also how the church is to hear of it. Years ago, the Spirit of God opened up the truth in vision:

 _“I asked the meaning of the shaking I had _seen,”_ declared the recipient of the vision, _“and was shown that it would be caused by the straight testimony called forth by the counsel of the Truth Witness to the Laodiceans. This will have its effect upon the heart of the receiver, and will lead him to exalt the standard and pour forth the straight truth. Some will not bear this straight testimony. They will rise up against it, and this is what will cause a shaking among God’s people.”_ – “Early Writings”, pg. 270._

 -- {2tg46 38}   
  
  In this vision, we are introduced to a mighty message that is to be carried to the Laodiceans, and that is to commence the shaking among God’s people. Then in subsequent vision and testimony, we are given to see the glorious sequel to this shaking.

 _“…Mighty miracles were wrought, the sick were healed, and signs and wonders followed the believers. God was in the work, and every saint, fearless of consequences, followed the convictions of his own conscience, and united with those who were keeping all the commandments of God; and with power they sounded abroad the third message.”_ – _Id_., pg. 278.

 _“Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence; He will come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the _dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert.”_ Isa. 35:4-6._

 -- {2tg46 39}   
  
   _“…It is impossible to give any idea of the experience of the people of God who shall be alive upon the earth when celestial glory and a repetition of the persecutions of the past are blended. They will walk in the light proceeding from the throne of God. By means of the angels there will be constant communication between heaven and earth. And Satan, surrounded by evil angels, and claiming to be God, will work miracles of all kinds, to deceive, if possible, the very elect. God’s people will not find their safety in working miracles; for Satan will counterfeit the miracles that will be wrought. God’s tried and tested people will find their power in the sign spoken of in Ex. 31:12-18….”_ – Testimonies, Vol. 9, pg. 16.

 Envisioning this great day of God’s power, the “gospel prophet,” too, focuses our eyes upon those who, heeding “the straight testimony,” survive the ordeal of the shaking, and behold face to face those wondrous scenes of future glory:

 _**“Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. But there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go _no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby….And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.”_ Isa. 33:20, 21, 24.**_

 -- {2tg46 40}   
  
   Then to this already glorious picture, Inspiration adds still another enlightening and heartening facet:

 _**“And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be delivered: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance, as the Lord hath said, and in the remnant whom the Lord shall call…. But Judah shall dwell for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.”**_ **Joel 2:32; 3:20.**

 _**“But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions…. And saviours shall come up on mount Zion to judge the mount of Esau; and the kingdom shall be the Lord’s.”**_ **Obad. 1:17, 21.**

 These two prophecies of deliverance and of subsequent events, vividly reveal the wonder-working power which is to invest those who endure the swiftly approaching “great and dreadful day of the Lord.”

 And now as the day “hastens on apace” (_Testimonies_, Vol. 5, pg. 80), to engulf in ruin the Laodiceans who turn a deaf ear to the message which causes the shaking, virtually none but the sick, the afflicted, the outcasts, and those from the streets and the lanes, will be humble and lowly enough to respond to the warnings, to experience the transforming power of divine grace upon their hearts, the progressively sanctifying impartation of righteousness by faith, and to be among the gathered ones, as Inspiration thus further discloses:

 -- {2tg46 41}   
  
   **_“And He shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.”_ Isa. 11:12.**

 **_“Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many: and sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So that servant came, and shewed his Lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.”_ Luke 14:16-21.**

 **_“…The wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand.”_ Dan. 12:10.**

 -- {2tg46 42}   
  
   Who are wise to understand? Are you, Brother, Sister? Will you act _now_, while there is time? Will you face the picture and get ready to meet the situation? Will you? Before the Spirit of God leaves you? and the Enemy secures final advantage over you? Will you realize that as he beguiles the rich with vanities and grinds the poor with cares, he will use every weapon he has to dishearten, discourage, and scatter all who accept the Lord’s merciful invitation to His supper?

 Moreover, as sure as the Devil lives, he will employ every possible agency to either add to God’s Truth, or to subtract from It, aggravating and disheartening, especially capitalizing on the misfortunes and afflictions of the saints, to thus secure their down-fall if possible. Principally will he depend upon two of his most powerful and successful agencies – extremisms – one pushing to the right and another to the left: In an effort to scatter as many as possible away from the center-path of light he will endeavor to drive one class into the fires of fanaticism, and to plunge another class into the icy waters of unconcern. To this end he will seek to convince the former class that their afflictions and misfortunes are the evident results of imperfect obedience to present truth, and will mock the latter class as fanatically strict in their course of faith.

 The only ones that will endure to the end will be those who carefully watch their steps from being carried away either by his additions to, or by his subtractions from, the works of Inspiration.

 -- {2tg46 43}   
  
   The informed, however, will rejoice rather than be pushed and driven to despair. Nothing, not even the afflictions of Job, will discourage them, for they will be wise and will understand: they will know the truth, and the truth will set them free from Satan’s snares. They will remember that the blind man (John 9:1-3) was born blind, not because of someone’s sin, but only that the Son of Man might be glorified in him. They will, as well, consider that both Lazarus and Dorcas took sick and died, not because they were the biggest sinners of the day, but that the Son of God might demonstrate that He has power not only to heal the sick but also to raise the dead at His will. They will perceive that afflictions and misfortunes that have come upon them, have not drawn them away from God, but rather have drawn them closer to Him; that they are better off to go into the kingdom, poor, maimed, halt, and blind, than to go into perdition, rich in houses, lands, oxen, and health or whatsoever.

 With tears of joy over His forgiving her her great sins, Mary Magdalene therewith washed her Saviour’s feet, and wiped them with her hair, then breaking the precious alabaster box, anointed His head with its ointment. All the while this was taking place, Judas’ greedy hands were twitching for the price of it to fatten his purse, though at the same time he was pretentiously professing deep love for the poor! This hypocritical profession, while tabering upon his breast, as it were “with the voice of doves,” he sought to pass off as genuine love for others, by accusing Mary of extravagance and waste, and Jesus of vanity and waste.

 -- {2tg46 44}   
  
   The informed and discerning will spot such false brethren in their midst, and will know that if God wants His faithful ones sick, they will gladly suffer sickness for His sake; that if He wants them well, they will praise His holy name for health and strength to enable them to do something for the feeble, the disabled, the sick, and the suffering; that if He wants them dead, then they cannot live and will gladly die; that if He wants them living, they cannot and will not want to die; that whatever He wants, this is what and will gladly take. Their hope will be in Him only. They will close their ears to all who in one way or another seek to reprobate Truth’s cause today; they will not listen to gossip; they will be confident that God is at the head of the work, that He Himself is attending to His business. They will know that all who remain in the pits of falsehood and unrighteousness will finally go into the “bottomless pit” of perdition.

 The lessons, too, from Job’s trials will be for their learning, hope, and courage. They will understand, and consider well the fact, that there were Jobs before the Job of the Bible, that there were Jobs since him, that there are Jobs today, and that there will be Jobs till Kingdom come. Their faith in God will be in truth and in confidence, whether in weal or in woe, in sickness or in death, and nothing will be able to move them from Heaven’s message for the day. They will know that it is to be either their life or their death, and to life will they cling. They will not be found murmuring, doubting, accusing, or despairing, for whatsoever their lot while inside God’s hedge, they will know it is His will for them. Every one of them will with heart and soul and in certainty say:

 -- {2tg46 45}   
  
   _**“I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore.”**_ **Ps. 121:1-8.**

 In the cumulative light now shining on the much mooted question of tongues and other miracles, none need longer continue in darkness, mistake, or confusion as to the nature, character, and purpose of the true miracle-working power, and the time for its manifestation. Sad to say, though, multitudes of uninformed and misinformed will continue to get hooked as they jump at hooks bated with miracle-promises dangling invitingly from the lines of so-called miracle-workers here, there, and everywhere, thus going from bad to worse, squandering their time and their money, their life and their health, their hope and their faith.

 -- {2tg46 46}   
  
   No saints will pray, then wonder if God has heard and answered their prayers. They will know and rejoice in faith that He has heard and answered them in His own way, even though it be entirely contrary to that for which they have prayed. They will do what they can in God’s way, accept the help He provides, and know that it is “better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man.” Ps. 118:8.

 Since the time for God to exalt any group of people with a demonstrational miracle-working power has not yet come, though it is indeed fast approaching, and since you brethren know the prophecies on this subject, then if you heed them, how fortunate and happy you will be in sparing yourselves from running hither and yon in search of a miracle-working power where there is no genuine.

 If you, Brethren, stay inside God’s hedge of inspired revelation, and walk with Him as did Enoch of old, you will have Him by your side every step of the way. So whatever your burden, leave it with Him, and He Himself will bear it for you to triumph. Know that He has heard your prayer, and that He will grant your request as He sees fit to carry out His plan for you and for His gospel today.

 -- {2tg46 47}   
  
   Miracle-mongers and miracle-hunters, fanatics all, bear in mind, may become dangerously subversive, ready to sabotage everything that is not in accordance with their thinking. Loose and rattling tongues will endeavor to shake the faith of us all. The ones, though, who bear the heaviest burden of feeding the flock with “meat in due season” will be the Devil’s main targets. At just such a time as this, these devoted followers of God will profit most by the Lord’s advice:

 _**“Trust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence in a guide: keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom. For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter in law against her mother in law; a man’s enemies are the men of his own house. Therefore I will look unto the Lord; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me.”**_ **Mic. 7:5-7.**

 It will be discovered that there will be thousands of voices, some from professed believers, and some from those who fight against the faith of the saints, one voice condemning one thing, and another condemning another thing, and what one condemns, another will approve. But when held close to the light of God’s word, all their discordant philosophizings and murmurings, their man-made plans and carnal ideas, will be seen to be but a tumult of envy, jealousy, pride, self-opinionation, hatred, malice, politics, greed, prejudice, and every other selfishness. These unfortunate, self-sent ones, being yet in spiritual darkness, doubtless imagine themselves to be working for God with zeal and energy. But one day they will horrifyingly discover that they have been working against the Lord, as Saul of Tarsus discovered about himself. May the prayers of the saints awaken them, and put them working for the Lord, as the prayers of Stephen caused Saul to become the great Apostle Paul for both Jew and Gentile. And may he that hath an ear, hear what the Spirit saith, and hold fast that which he hath lest the enemy deceitfully take it from his grasp.

 -- {2tg46 48}   
  
  